StanChart plans further aviation finance joint ventures渣打酝酿组建更多航空金融合资企业 - FT中文网
Standard Chartered is considering another “one or two” aviation finance joint ventures and may list the one it launched in China earlier this year, said Sumit Dayal, the bank’s head of corporate finance. 
StanChart’s aviation finance arm Pembroke, and Sichuan Development Holding, the largest state-owned enterprise in the Sichuan province, launched a joint venture in Sichuan last March, giving them a foothold in a market where airlines are set to spend $1tn on aircraft in the next 20 years.
The Chinese market already offers ample capital to airlines, so much so that Chinese money is expected to fund more than a third of the $261bn aircraft leasing market by 2022, according to an aviation data provider.
The Pembroke/Sichuan joint venture focuses on fleet management and re-marketing aircraft when their leases end, leveraging StanChart’s aviation finance experience and Sichuan Development’s local connections. 
Sichuan Development is the second-largest shareholder in Sichuan Airport Group, which owns Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport and is building another airport in the region. 
StanChart is “open to another one or two joint ventures” on a similar model to “further diversify” its business, Mr Dayal told the Financial Times. The bank has not yet identified into which markets it would launch the ventures, but they are likely to be in its traditional strongholds of Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Africa. 
In China, Mr Dayal said StanChart could list the business if it does well in its first three to five years. Last month, the bank took another step into China by launching Pembroke Aircraft Leasing in China’s Dongjiang free trade port in Tianjin.
Pembroke, which has its headquarters in Dublin, manages a fleet of more than 130 aircraft, serving airlines in 29 countries. Mr Dayal said the business was enjoying “good growth” because Standard Chartered and Pembroke can offer airline clients services such as working capital and cash management — which he says that competitors solely focused on leasing cannot provide. 
Standard Chartered is trying to diversify its corporate finance business more generally by servicing a broader range of clients who already use Standard Chartered for other day-to-day businesses.  
Mr Dayal said Standard Chartered had “materially beefed up” its corporate finance teams in the last year, hiring bankers to support coverage in the UK, parts of Europe and the US and that it was making good progress with its business strategy.
渣打(Standard Chartered)公司金融业务主管苏米特•达亚尔(Sumit Dayal)表示，该行正考虑再成立“一、两家”航空金融合资企业，并可能让今年早些时候在中国组建的一家企业上市。
渣打旗下航空金融公司Pembroke和四川省最大国有企业四川发展控股(Sichuan Development Holding，以下简称“四川发展”)今年3月在四川成立一家合资企业，在航空租赁市场取得一个立足点。预计未来20年各航空公司将在该市场支出1万亿美元租用飞机。
据一家航空数据提供商介绍，中国市场已经在为航空公司提供充裕资本，预计到2022年，飞机租赁市场将达到2610亿美元的规模，其中，中国资金将占到逾三分之一。
Pembroke四川合资企业专注于机队管理和租期结束后飞机的再营销，充分利用渣打的航空金融经验和四川发展的国内联系。
四川发展是四川省机场集团(Sichuan Airport Group)的第二大股东，该集团拥有成都双流国际机场，目前正在该地区建设另一座机场。
达亚尔告诉英国《金融时报》，渣打对于以类似模式组建“另外一、两家合资企业持开放心态”，以求“进一步多样化”业务。该行尚未确定在什么市场建立合资企业，但很可能是在该行传统上实力较强的东南亚、中东和非洲。
达亚尔表示，在中国的合资企业如果在最初3至5年发展良好，渣打可能让该业务上市。上月，该行在中国又迈出一步，在天津东疆保税港区成立Pembroke飞机租赁（天津）有限公司。
总部设在都柏林的Pembroke管理着130多架飞机，服务于29个国家的航空公司。达亚尔表示，由于渣打和Pembroke能够为航空公司客户提供营运资金和现金管理等服务，因此其业务“增长不错”；他表示，只专注于飞机租赁的竞争对手无法提供这类服务。
总的来说，渣打正试图拓展公司金融业务，为已经在其他日常业务中使用该行的更广泛客户提供这类业务。
达亚尔表示，渣打去年“大大地扩充了”公司金融团队，聘请银行家支持英国、欧洲部分地区以及美国的业务，该行在业务战略上取得了良好进展。
译者/何黎


