Bitcoin drop continues during holiday trading比特币延续震荡行情 - FT中文网
Bitcoin has struggled to recover from last week’s wild swings, with the price of the popular but volatile digital currency giving up some of its weekend recovery to trade at about $14,000 by midday on Sunday in New York. 
The cryptocurrency tumbled more than 30 per cent for its biggest reverse of the year before a similarly steep rally on Friday, with the frenzied trading bringing a major cryptocurrency exchange to a standstill as investors reacted to warnings from global regulators and concerns about security in the nascent market.
Bitcoin reached a peak of $19,666 on December 17, but collapsed as much as 31.8 per cent on Friday to a low of $10,775 per coin. It clawed back some of its losses on Friday morning and Saturday to reach above $16,000 again, before slipping back just below the $14,000 mark on Sunday.
Michael Novogratz, a prominent former hedge fund manager and one of bitcoin’s most ardent champions in the traditional finance industry, on Friday shelved plans to launch a cryptocurrency-focused hedge fund, and warned that bitcoin could slide to as low as $8,000. He has previously predicted it could hit $50,000 by the end of next year. 
“Looks to me like a short term top is in,” Mr Novogratz wrote on Twitter on Friday “Bull market isn’t over. Just pausing.”
“To be clear, we delayed launching a hedge fund with outside investors capital last week because we didn’t like market conditions for new investors. In no way does it mean we are less bullish the crypto markets,” he added. 
The explosion of interest in bitcoin and its cryptocurrency cousins has been labelled by many analysts as a classic speculative mania, and drawn warnings from regulators across the world that investors should be wary of the dangers posed by the volatile world of digital currencies. 
Those worries were sharpened last week when a small US-listed soft-drink maker called Long Island Iced Tea Corp surged as much as 500 per cent after changing its name to Long Blockchain Corp, a spike that echoed the peak of the dotcom mania.
Underscoring its status as the wildest frontier of finance, the turbulence of bitcoin has for the past month been greater than the volatility suffered by US equities at the peak of the financial crisis in 2008, the Black Monday crash of 1987 and the Black Tuesday slide of 1929 that heralded the Great Depression.
比特币艰难地从上周的剧烈震荡中恢复过来，这种高人气、高波动性的数字货币的价格周日中午在纽约回吐了周末期间的一部分涨幅，至1.4万美元左右。
上周五，这种加密货币呈现全年最大行情逆转，一度大跌逾30%，但随即出现类似的剧烈上涨。随着全球监管机构的警告和各方对这个新生市场安全的担忧引发投资者反应，疯狂的交易导致一家主要的加密货币交易所停摆。
比特币价格在12月17日达到19666美元的高点，但上周五一度大跌31.8%，至每个比特币10775美元。上周五早盘和上周六，它收复部分失地，恢复至1.6万美元上方，却在周日再度跌破1.4万美元大关。
知名前对冲基金经理、比特币在传统金融业的最坚定倡导者之一迈克尔•诺沃格拉茨(Michael Novogratz)，本来打算推出一只聚焦于加密货币的对冲基金，但在上周五搁置相关计划，并警告称，比特币可能降至8000美元。他此前曾预计，比特币到明年底可能达到5万美元。
“在我看来，这像是一个短期峰顶，”诺沃格拉茨上周五在Twitter上写道。“牛市还没有结束。只是暂停。”
“应该指出，我们上周推迟发起一只吸收外部投资者资本的对冲基金，因为我们不喜欢新投资者面对的市场条件。这绝不意味着我们已经不那么看好加密货币市场，”他补充说。
对比特币和其他加密货币兴趣的激增，已被许多分析师称为一场经典的投机狂热，并引发全球监管机构警告称，投资者应该警惕动荡的数字货币世界所构成的危险。
加剧人们担心的是，上周，一家名为“长岛冰茶公司”(Long Island Iced Tea Corp)的小型美国上市软饮料生产商在更名为“长区块链公司”(Long Blockchain Corp)之后，股价飙涨500%，这使人联想起网络股泡沫高峰时期的癫狂。
突显比特币已成为最狂野金融前沿的是，比特币在过去一个月的波动性，已经大于美国股市在历次金融危机期间的波动性，包括2008年的金融危机、1987年的黑色星期一崩盘，以及开启大萧条的1929年黑色星期二股灾。
译者/和风


