HK company latest to deny link to North Korea oil sale香港公司否认向朝鲜出售油料 - FT中文网
Hong Kong-based Global Commodities Consultants on Wednesday became the latest company to deny it sold a cargo of oil to North Korea, as the chain of companies linked to a seized vessel lengthens.
Global Commodities Consultants confirmed in a statement it had bought the cargo of oil from Trafigura but said it had “on-sold” it to another company, which it said it believed was based in Taiwan.
South Korea last week seized a Hong Kong-based vessel, the Lighthouse Winmore, following accusations it had broken UN sanctions by secretly transferring 600 tonnes of refined petroleum to a North Korean ship in international waters in October. US President Donald Trump has threatened trade action against China for allowing fuel supplies to reach Pyongyang despite sanctions over its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes.
The Lighthouse Winmore tanker was chartered by a Taiwanese company incorporated in the Marshall Islands and the “consignor” was Trafigura, South Korea’s Foreign Ministry spokesman said Tuesday.
Trafigura said in a statement Tuesday that the Lighthouse Winmore was “neither owned nor has it been chartered by Trafigura.” The Geneva-based company said it had sold the oil to Global Commodities Consultants, which had stated the destination as Taiwan.
Global Commodities Consultants said on Wednesday that after buying the cargo from Trafigura it sold it to another company for delivery from South Korea to Taiwan.
“Our sales contract prohibits the on-sale of cargo in breach of sanctions. Global Commodities Consultants has no knowledge of and is not involved in the on-sale of the cargo,” the company said.
总部位于香港的Global Commodities Consultants周三成为最新一家否认曾向朝鲜出售一批油料的公司。目前，与一艘被扣船舶有牵扯的公司名单越来越长。
Global Commodities Consultants公司在一份声明中证实，其曾从大宗商品交易商托克(Trafigura)买下这批油料，但表示已将其“转售”给另一家公司，当时相信后者是一家总部位于台湾的公司。
韩国上周扣押了在香港注册的“Lighthouse Winmore号”油轮，此前该船被指在去年10月违反联合国制裁，在国际海域秘密向一艘朝鲜船舶转运600吨成品油。美国总统唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)威胁要对中国采取贸易行动，称中国允许平壤方面继续获得燃料供应，尽管联合国针对朝鲜的核武器和弹道导弹计划实施了制裁。
韩国外交部发言人周二表示，“Lighthouse Winmore号”油轮由一家在马绍尔群岛注册的台湾公司租用，而相关货物的“发货人”是托克。
托克周二在一份声明中表示，“Lighthouse Winmore号”油轮“不是由托克拥有或租用的”。这家总部位于日内瓦的公司表示，它已将涉案油料卖给Global Commodities Consultants公司，而后者曾声明这批货的目的地是台湾。
Global Commodities Consultants公司周三表示，在从托克购买这批油料后，已将其出售给另一家公司，以便从韩国运往台湾。
“我们的销售合同禁止转售违反制裁的货物。Global Commodities Consultants公司不知道，也没有参与相关货物的转售，”该公司称。
译者/何黎


