Trump ends ‘temporary protected status’ of 200,000 Salvadorans特朗普向20万萨尔瓦多移民下逐客令 - FT中文网
The Trump administration has escalated its crackdown on immigration by putting nearly 200,000 Salvadorans legally in the US on notice that they are likely to be deported, a sign the White House will continue its hardline stance despite objections from American companies.
The decision to revoke “temporary protected status” for residents from El Salvador, who were allowed to work in the US following devastating earthquakes in 2001, comes amid congressional efforts to roll back the administration’s toughest anti-immigration measures following intense pressure from Silicon Valley.
The move is seen as catering to voters in President Donald Trump’s political base, who Republicans need to turn out in large numbers in November midterm elections if the party is to retain control of both houses of Congress.
But it was angrily opposed by Democrats and immigration activists, who accused Mr Trump of cruelty towards people who have been in the US for a decade and a half. Tim Kaine, Hillary Clinton’s vice-presidential candidate, described the decision as “heartless” as he pointed to violence still ravaging El Salvador.
Business groups have been less vocal, but they have also urged the administration to maintain the programme, which was signed into law by President George HW Bush in 1990. In addition to the 200,000 Salvadorans, about 46,000 Haitians covered by the programme have already been warned their protection will be stripped.
特朗普政府加大了对移民的打击力度，向近20万在美国合法居留的萨尔瓦多人发出了他们很可能被驱逐出境的通知，这一迹象表明，尽管美国企业反对，但白宫仍将坚持在移民问题上采取强硬立场。
在硅谷的强大压力下，美国国会正努力缩减行政当局出炉的最严厉的反移民措施。在此背景下，特朗普政府还是决定撤销在2001年大地震后授予萨尔瓦多居民的可在美国工作的“临时保护地位”(temporary protected status)。
此举被视为意在迎合唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)总统政治根基中的选民群体。若想保住对国会两院的控制权，共和党需要这些选民在11月的中期选举中踊跃出门投票。
但这一决定遭到民主党人和移民活动人士的愤怒反对，他们指责特朗普残忍对待这些在美国生活了15年的萨尔瓦多人。希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选搭档蒂姆•凯恩(Tim Kaine)将这一决定形容为“无情”，他指出暴力在萨尔瓦多依然猖獗。
商业团体虽然并未如此直言不讳，但他们也敦促行政当局维持乔治•HW•布什(George HW Bush)总统于1990年签署成为法律的这项计划。除了20万萨尔瓦多人之外，受该计划保护的约4.6万海地人已经接到他们的保护地位将被剥夺的警告。
译者/申凯


