Defiant UN backs call for US to drop recognition 
of Jerusalem联合国决议呼吁美国放弃承认耶路撒冷 - FT中文网
More than 100 nations voted in favour of a UN resolution calling for the US to drop its recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, defying Donald Trump, who had threatened to cut aid to countries that supported the motion.
The resolution saying that any change to the city’s status was “null and void” was requested by Arab and Muslim countries outraged at the US president’s decision and passed by 128 votes to 9 with 35 abstentions.
Mr Trump recognised Jerusalem as the Israeli capital this month and said he planned to move the US embassy to the divided city, a decision that reversed seven decades of American policy.
Arab and Muslim leaders, including staunch US allies, warned that the declaration risked fuelling instability in the Middle East and threatened hopes of reviving the moribund Israeli-Palestinian peace process.
The dispute over the decision intensified this week as the US warned that a vote against it at the UN could jeopardise funding for other countries.
Nikki Haley, the US ambassador to the UN, said on Thursday: “The United States will remember this day when it was singled out for attack in the General Assembly . . . We will remember it when so many countries come calling on us, as they often do, to pay even more. This vote will be remembered.”
Mr Trump had warned on Wednesday that “we’re watching those votes. Let them vote against us. We’ll save a lot. We don’t care. They take hundreds of millions of dollars and even billions of dollars, and then they vote against us.”
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey’s president, criticised the US threats on Thursday, in a speech in Ankara, saying: “Mr Trump, you cannot buy Turkey’s democratic will with your dollars.
“I hope and expect the United States won’t get the result it expects from [the UN] and the world will give a very good lesson to the United States.”
The status of Jerusalem is one of the most contentious issues in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. Israel regards it as its undivided capital and claims sovereignty over the entire city. But the international community views East Jerusalem, which Israel captured during the 1967 war, as occupied land and the Palestinians see it as the capital of a future state. No country has an embassy in Jerusalem.
The resolution did not mention the US specifically but expressed “deep regret at recent decisions concerning the status of Jerusalem”.
Mr Trump’s advisers portrayed his decision to recognise the divided city as the capital of Israel as an inevitable recognition of reality. It allows Mr Trump to demonstrate resolve on a hugely symbolic issue and redeem a pledge to supporters and important political donors that he first made during the presidential campaign.
Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, applauded Mr Trump’s move on Jerusalem and called the UN a “house of lies” ahead of the vote. “The state of Israel totally rejects this vote, even before [the resolution’s] approval,” Mr Netanyahu said in a speech in Israel.
Mr Trump has promised to broker what he has described as the “ultimate” deal to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Advisers led by Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, have been hoping to announce plans for a new peace process early next year.
逾100个国家投票赞成一项要求美国放弃承认耶路撒冷是以色列首都的联合国决议，没有理会唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)有关中止援助支持这一动议的国家的威胁。
这份决议是应阿拉伯和穆斯林国家的请求作出的。他们对美国总统的决定感到愤慨。以128票赞成、9票反对、35票弃权通过的这项决议称，对该市地位的任何改变都是“无效的”。
特朗普本月承认耶路撒冷为以色列首都，并表示他计划将美国大使馆迁往这座分裂的城市，这一决定逆转了持续70年的美国政策。
阿拉伯和穆斯林国家的领导人（其中一些是美国的坚定盟友）警告称，这一宣告可能加剧中东的不稳定，并使本已濒临死亡的以巴和平进程无望重振。
围绕这个决定的纷争本周加剧，美国警告称，在联合国投票与美国作对，可能危及相关国家的资金来源。
美国驻联合国大使尼基•黑利(Nikki Haley)周四表示：“美国将记住今天发生的事情，它在联合国大会上被挑出来作为攻击对象……当很多国家像他们经常做的那样，找我们要更多钱的时候，我们将记住这件事。这次投票将被记住。”
此前特朗普已在周三警告称，“我们将观察这些投票。让他们投我们的反对票。我们会省掉很多钱。我们不在乎。他们拿了数亿甚至数十亿美元，然后他们投票与我们作对。”
土耳其总统雷杰普•塔伊普•埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)周四在安卡拉发表演讲时批评美国的威胁，称：“特朗普先生，你不能用你的美元收买土耳其的民主意志。
“我希望并认为美国不会（从联合国）得到它期望的结果，世界将给美国一个很好的教训。”
耶路撒冷的地位是以巴和平进程中最有争议的问题之一。以色列认为该市是其不可分割的首都，并声称对整座城市拥有主权。但国际社会认为以色列在1967年战争中攻占的东耶路撒冷属于被占领土地，而巴勒斯坦人认为东耶路撒冷是他们的未来国家的首都。目前没有一个国家在耶路撒冷设立使馆。
联合国决议没有点名提到美国，但表示“对最近有关耶路撒冷地位的决定深感遗憾”。
对于特朗普承认这座分裂城市是以色列首都的决定，他的顾问们描绘为对现实不可避免的承认。这个决定使特朗普得以在一个具有巨大象征意义的问题上展现出决心，并兑现他在竞选总统期间对支持者和重要的政治捐赠者作出的承诺。
联合国举行投票之前，以色列总理本雅明•内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)对特朗普在耶路撒冷问题上的决定表示赞赏，并称联合国是一个“谎言之家”。“甚至在决议通过之前，以色列政府就完全拒绝这一表决，”内塔尼亚胡在以色列发表演讲时表示。
特朗普已承诺要斡旋达成他所称的“终极”协议，以结束以巴冲突。以他的女婿贾里德•库什纳(Jared Kushner)为首的顾问们希望最快在2018年初就宣布启动新和平进程的计划。
译者/何黎


