China housing inventory hits 4-year low on de-stocking success中国房屋库存创4年新低 - FT中文网
The volume of unsold Chinese homes hit a four-year low last month, in a sign that new construction can cushion an expected economic slowdown next year, while persistent warnings of a bubble may be overstated.
Real estate is crucial to China’s overall economy, contributing at least 20 per cent of gross domestic product when upstream and downstream sectors such as steel and home appliances are included. De-stocking of housing inventory was a key element in President Xi Jinping’s “supply-side reform” campaign to address excesses in a range of industries.
A strong property market has powered overall Chinese growth this year, putting the economy on pace for its first year-on-year acceleration since 2010.
But growth of both sales and new construction has slowed for most of the year, with analysts expecting the slowdown to continue into 2018. The government has imposed a series of restrictions on mortgage lending to restrain price growth, amid concerns over both financial risk and affordability for lower-income residents.
Still, the latest data suggest that developers will need to maintain a relatively quick pace of construction to keep up with demand, despite the sales slowdown. New construction will in turn drive demand for the output of China’s huge manufacturing sector, including steel, cement and glass.
Housing inventories fell 10.1 per cent in October from a year earlier and 2.1 per cent from a month earlier, bringing total unsold floor area to its lowest since August 2013, according to an 80-city survey by E-House China Research Institute. Inventories have now fallen for 27 consecutive months.
The data “thoroughly illustrate that the country’s three-year battle to digest inventories has achieved very good results”, Yan Yuejin, research director for E-House, wrote in the report. The data exclude flats that are sold but unoccupied, which one survey estimates at 50m.
A
中国住宅库存总量上月创下四年新低，这个迹象表明新开工的建筑活动有望缓冲明年预期会出现的经济放缓，同时不断发出的泡沫警告可能被夸大。
房地产对中国整体经济至关重要，若包括钢铁和家用电器等上、下游行业，该行业至少贡献国内生产总值(GDP)的20%。在中国国家主席习近平为应对一系列行业产能过剩提出的“供给侧改革”中，住房去库存是一个关键元素。
今年以来，强劲的房地产市场推动了经济的整体增长。自2010年以来，中国经济增长将首次出现同比加速。
但商品房销售和新屋开工量在今年大部分时间都呈放缓趋势，分析师们预计，放缓趋势将延续至2018年。出于对金融风险和低收入居民负担能力的双重担心，中国政府对抵押贷款施加了一系列限制，以抑制房价上涨。
话虽如此，最新数据似乎表明，尽管房屋销售放缓，但开发商将需要保持相对较快的建设速度才能跟上需求。新开工的建筑活动进而将加大对中国庞大制造业产出的需求，包括钢铁、水泥和玻璃。
根据易居房地产研究院(E-House China Research Institute)对80个城市的调查，10月份新建商品住宅库存总量同比减少10.1%，环比减少2.1%，令库存规模降至2013年8月以来最低水平。商品房库存已连续27个月下降。
易居房地产研究院研究总监严跃进在报告中写道，这些数据充分说明中国持续三年的库存消化战取得了良好效果。相关数据不包括已售出但无人居住的公寓，一项调查估计这类住房的总数达到5000万套。
译者/何黎


