False missile alert sparks panic in Hawaii夏威夷州政府因误发“导弹来袭警报”遭批评 - FT中文网
The government of Hawaii was under fire after an emergency alert mistakenly sent to phones sent the residents of the US state into panic over a possible ballistic missile attack and tested its emergency response protocols amid rising tensions over North Korea’s nuclear programme.
The alert, sent early on Saturday morning, said: “Ballistic missile threat inbound to Hawaii. Seek immediate shelter. This is not a drill.”
Almost 40 minutes later the alert was recalled as state officials said the message had been sent in error and there was no threat. Hawaii governor David Ige said the original message had been sent mistakenly during a shift change, when a wrong button was pressed.
“I know first hand that what happening today was completely unacceptable. I too am very angry and disappointed this happened,” he told a press briefing. “The public must have confidence in our emergency alert system.”
The Federal Communications Commission said a full investigation was under way and was severely critical of the state’s procedures, which had “caused a wave of panic across the state — worsened by the 38-minute delay before a correction alert was issued.”
“Based on the information we have collected so far, it appears that the government of Hawaii did not have reasonable safeguards or process controls in place to prevent the transmission of a false alert, “ FCC chairman Ajit Pai said in a statement on Sunday, flagging the need to examine alert systems across all American states.
In the aftermath of the chaos, it was found that not all phone carriers had sent the alert and only some sirens had sounded.
“What happened today is totally inexcusable,” said Brian Schatz, the senior US senator from Hawaii. “The whole state was terrified. There needs to be tough and quick accountability and a fixed process.”
Shortly after the alert was recalled, the White House said the president had been briefed on Hawaii’s emergency management exercise, reiterating that it “was purely a state exercise”.
夏威夷州政府受到批评，此前一个紧急警报被错误地发送到手机，使该州居民对可能的弹道导弹袭击陷入恐慌。在朝鲜核武计划引发紧张的背景下，此事考验了该州的应急响应程序。
上周六大清早发出的警报称：“弹道导弹威胁逼近夏威夷。立即寻找掩蔽处。这不是演习。”
近40分钟后，警报才被解除，州政府官员称，警报是误发的，没有任何威胁。夏威夷州州长戴维•伊格(David Ige)表示，原来的信息在换班过程中被错误地发送出去，有人按错了一个按钮。
“我从亲身体验知道，今天发生的事情是完全不能让人接受的。我也非常生气，对发生了这件事感到失望，”他在记者会上表示。“公众必须对我们的紧急警报系统有信心。”
美国联邦通信委员会(FCC)表示，已展开一项全面调查，并严厉批评了夏威夷州政府的程序，称这些程序“在整个州造成一波恐慌——更糟糕的是过了38分钟才发布更正警示”。
“根据我们迄今收集的信息，夏威夷政府似乎没有实行合理的保障或过程控制措施来防止误发警报，”FCC主席阿吉特•帕伊(Ajit Pai)上周日在一份声明中表示。他指出需要检查美国所有州的警报系统。
混乱发生过后，人们发现，并非所有的电信运营商都发出了警报，而且只有一部分警报器响起。
“今天发生的事情完全是不可原谅的，”来自夏威夷的资深参议员布莱恩•沙茨(Brian Schatz)表示。“整个州都被吓坏了。需要有强大而快速的问责制和一套固定流程。”
警报被解除后不久，白宫表示，总统听取了有关夏威夷应急管理演练的简报，并重申这“纯粹是一个州级的演练”。
译者/和风


