Guatemala joins US with Jerusalem embassy move危地马拉宣布将驻以色列使馆迁至耶路撒冷 - FT中文网
Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales said on Sunday he had given instructions to move the Central American country's embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, a few days after his government backed the US in a dispute over the city's status.
In a short post on his official Facebook account, Mr Morales said he decided to move the embassy from Tel Aviv after talking to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday.
This month Donald Trump, the US president, recognised Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, reversing decades of US policy and causing anger in the Arab world and frustrating western allies.
The status of Jerusalem is one of the thorniest obstacles to forging a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians, who want East Jerusalem as their capital.
The international community does not recognise Israeli sovereignty over the entire city, home to sites holy to the Muslim, Jewish and Christian religions.
On Thursday, 128 countries defied Mr Trump by backing a non-binding UN General Assembly resolution calling for the US to drop its recognition of Jerusalem.
Guatemala and neighbouring Honduras were two of only a handful of countries to join the US and Israel in voting against the resolution on Jerusalem.
The US is an important source of assistance to Guatemala and Honduras, and Mr Trump had threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that supported the UN resolution.
Mr Morales, a former television comedian with an important base of conservative Christian support, earlier this year became embroiled in a bitter spat with the UN when a UN-backed anti-corruption body in Guatemala tried to impeach him.
Although Mr Morales avoided impeachment, he failed in an attempt to expel the head of the body, the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala, after criticism from the UN, US and EU.
危地马拉总统吉米•莫拉莱斯(Jimmy Morales)周日宣布，他已经下令将这个中美洲国家驻以色列大使馆迁至耶路撒冷。几天前，在有关耶路撒冷地位的争议中，莫拉莱斯的政府支持了美国。
莫拉莱斯在其官方Facebook账号上的一篇短博文中表示，他在周日与以色列总理本雅明•内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)交谈后，决定将大使馆从特拉维夫迁至耶路撒冷。
美国总统唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)在本月承认耶路撒冷为以色列首都，推翻了美国数十年来的政策，引起了阿拉伯世界的愤怒和西方盟友的郁闷。
耶路撒冷的地位是以色列和巴勒斯坦达成和平协议的最棘手障碍之一。巴勒斯坦希望将东耶路撒冷作为首都。
国际社会不承认以色列对整个耶路撒冷拥有主权。耶路撒冷汇聚伊斯兰教、犹太教和基督教的宗教圣地。
上周四，128个国家投票赞成一项要求美国放弃承认耶路撒冷是以色列首都的不具约束力的联合国决议，反对特朗普的行动。
危地马拉和邻国洪都拉斯等少数国家与美国和以色列一起，对这一有关耶路撒冷的决议投下反对票。
美国是危地马拉和洪都拉斯的重要援助来源，特朗普曾威胁要对支持这一联合国决议的国家切断财政援助。
莫拉莱斯是一位前电视喜剧演员，立场保守的基督教阵营是他的重要支持根基。今年早些时候，他卷入了与联合国的激烈争吵，原因是一个得到联合国支持的危地马拉反腐机构试图弹劾他。
尽管莫拉莱斯避免了被弹劾，但他驱逐上述机构“危地马拉反逍遥法外国际委员会”(CICIG)领导人的尝试因为遭联合国、美国和欧盟(EU)批评而失败。
译者/徐行


