South Korean former general warns US against strike on north韩国退役将军警告美国不要贸然对朝发动袭击 - FT中文网
One of South Korea’s most distinguished former generals has warned the US there could be no quick military victory against North Korea, casting doubt on Washington’s plans to deliver a “bloody nose” attack to force Kim Jong Un to scale back his nuclear ambitions.
Chun In-bum, who served for almost 40 years in the South Korean army and commanded the special forces, said the US would need to be prepared for a long, attritional war against a heavily militarised opponent.
“If we have to go into North Korea, it is not going to be like going into Iraq or Afghanistan,” Mr Chun told an audience at the Policy Exchange, a London think-tank. “It’s not going to be like toppling [Saddam] Hussein.
“This would be more like trying to get rid of Allah. King Jong Un and his family are a cult . . . It will be a toothache like pulling out all of your teeth”.
Mr Chun’s comments come as relations between North and South Korea are starting to thaw following a year of missile tests by Pyongyang and rising tensions between Mr Kim, the North’s supreme leader, and Donald Trump, US president.
This week delegates from the north and the south met for the first time in two years, with Mr Kim agreeing to send a team of athletes to the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea next month.
However, while Mr Trump has not ruled out future peace talks, the fresh discussions between the two Koreas risk undermining the “maximum pressure” approach of the US.
In recent months US military chiefs have raised the possibility of a pre-emptive attack to signal Washington’s determination to resolve the crisis, including a strike on an air base or naval facility or bombing one of Mr Kim’s homes.
Mr Chun warned against any sudden moves. “No one likes surprises,” he said, adding that North Korea had not yet acquired the capability to hit Washington with a nuclear warhead despite testing three intercontinental ballistic missiles and conducting its sixth nuclear test in the past year.
“This is where the window still exists for them to cease. If they want to broker a deal with the Americans, they need to do it now,” said Mr Chun.
韩国最知名的退役将军之一警告美国，对朝鲜不可能取得快速军事胜利，他质疑华盛顿发起猛烈军事打击以迫使金正恩(Kim Jong Un)放弃核武野心的计划。
曾在韩国陆军服役近40年、并担任过特种部队指挥官的全仁钒(Chun In-bum)表示，美国若采取军事行动，就需要准备好同一个重度军事化的对手进行长期消耗战。
“如果我们不得不攻打北韩，情况将不会像进入伊拉克或阿富汗那样，”全仁钒在伦敦智库Policy Exchange对听众表示，“这将不会像推翻（萨达姆）侯赛因(Hussein)那样。”
“这将更像是试图除掉安拉(Allah)。金正恩及其家族是一个邪教……那将是像拔掉所有牙齿一样的钻心之痛。”
全仁钒是在朝韩关系开始解冻之际发表上述言论的，此前一年，平壤多次试射导弹，而其最高领导人金正恩与美国总统唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)之间的紧张不断升级。
本周，朝韩两国代表举行了两年来的首次会晤，金正恩同意派一支运动员代表队参加下月举行的韩国平昌冬奥会。
然而，尽管特朗普并未排除未来进行和谈的可能性，但朝韩之间的对话可能会破坏美国对朝施加“最大压力”的做法。
近几个月，美国军方领导人提出了先发制人打击的可能性——包括对某个空军基地或海军设施发动空袭，或是轰炸金正恩的某处住所——以表明华盛顿方面解决朝核危机的决心。
全仁钒警告不要采取任何贸然行动。他说：“没人喜欢突然袭击。”他还表示，朝鲜尚未具备用核弹头攻击华盛顿的能力，尽管朝鲜在过去一年试射三枚洲际弹道导弹并进行了第六次核试验。
全仁钒说：“这是他们仍可以抓住的悬崖勒马的机会。如果他们希望与美国达成什么协议，他们需要现在开始行动。”
译者/申凯


