Fresh Uber scrutiny as driver held over death of UK embassy worker in Beirut黎巴嫩优步司机被控杀害英使馆人员 - FT中文网
Uber has confirmed that a man held by Lebanese authorities on charges of killing a British government worker was a driver for the car-hailing app.
A Lebanese security official said the man had a criminal record and had confessed to killing Rebecca Dykes. The 30-year-old, who worked for the British Department for International Development in Beirut, went missing late on Friday in the city and was found dead along a highway on Saturday morning.
If Dykes’ death is officially confirmed to have been at the hands of an Uber driver, it will underline concerns over the company’s security measures.
Diplomats said a security camera had caught footage of Dykes being put into an SUV late on Friday night, the point at which they believe she was abducted. The security official said officers arrested a man who was an Uber driver, but did not specify the vehicle.
Uber said that the driver held by Lebanese officials drove an SUV. “We are horrified by this senseless act of violence. Our hearts are with the victim and her family,” it said. “We are working with authorities to assist their investigation in any way we can.”
Regulators have repeatedly criticised Uber for its safety record.
London’s transport authority banned Uber in September over concerns about its approach to reporting crimes and background checks on drivers following complaints from the city’s police.
Three years ago it was temporarily banned in New Delhi because of concerns about passenger safety and was forced to introduce changes to its app. Uber is appealing against the London ban.
Transport authorities are typically responsible for vetting private-hire drivers. Uber said the suspect in Beirut had passed checks on his judicial record and was not found by Uber to have any problematic safety reports.
Uber requires that drivers have a taxi licence. Under Lebanese law, taxi drivers must have a clean judicial record.
Dykes’ body was found with signs of strangulation. A security official said there were also signs of sexual assault. Lebanese authorities said the suspect had confessed when he was arrested.
But several western diplomats said they were wary of the authorities’ claims to have caught the killer, expressing concern that the investigation by local security forces may not have been rigorous.
打车服务提供商优步(Uber)证实，黎巴嫩当局以杀死一名英国政府工作人员罪名拘留的男子是优步的司机。
一名黎巴嫩安全官员表示，这名男子有犯罪记录，他已承认杀死丽贝卡•戴克斯(Rebecca Dykes)。30岁的戴克斯在贝鲁特为英国国际发展部(DFID)工作，上周五晚在该市失踪，上周六早晨，有人在一条公路旁发现了她的尸体。
（文首照片为黎巴嫩首都贝鲁特——编者注）
如果戴克斯被官方证实死于一名优步司机之手，那将会加剧各方对该公司安全措施的担忧。
外交圈人士表示，监控摄像头拍到了上周五晚戴克斯被人带上一辆SUV的画面，他们相信，那就是她被绑架的时刻。上述安全官员称警方逮捕了一名职业是优步司机的男子，但没有说明车辆类型。
优步表示，被黎巴嫩官员羁押的司机开的确实是一辆SUV。“我们为这种无谓的暴力行为感到震惊。我们的心与受害者和她的家人在一起，”该公司表示。“我们正在与有关部门协调，尽我们所能配合他们的调查。”
监管机构已一再批评优步的安全记录。
伦敦的交通主管部门在今年9月禁止优步继续运营，因为在该市警方发出抱怨后，优步在向警方报案和对司机进行背景调查方面的做法引发担忧。
三年前，由于担心乘客安全问题，优步在新德里遭遇暂时禁令，并被迫对其应用作出修改。优步正就伦敦的禁令进行上诉。
一般而言，交通主管部门负责审查私人租车司机。优步表示，贝鲁特的那名犯罪嫌疑人通过了司法记录检查，优步没有发现任何有问题的安全报告。
优步要求所有司机都有出租车执照。根据黎巴嫩法律，出租车司机必须有无瑕疵的司法记录。
尸体上的痕迹显示，死者可能是被勒死的。一名安全官员透露，还有一些性侵痕迹。黎巴嫩当局表示，嫌疑人在被捕时曾招认。
但几名西方外交官表示，他们对当局声称已经抓到凶手的说法不完全接受，担心当地警方的调查可能不严谨。
译者/何黎


