Deutsche Bank hands over Trump files to Russian interference investigation德银向美国特别检察官提交特朗普账户资料 - FT中文网
Deutsche Bank has begun sending information about its dealings with Donald Trump to US investigators probing alleged Russian interference in the 2016 presidential race following a subpoena from Robert Mueller, special counsel heading the federal inquiry.
A person with direct knowledge of the bank’s actions told the Financial Times that production of Trump-related documents began several weeks ago. “Deutsche could not hand over client information without a subpoena,” said a second person with direct knowledge. “It’s helpful to be ordered to do so.”
The move is a sign that Mr Mueller’s probe may be moving beyond contacts between Mr Trump’s campaign and Russia, and into the billionaire’s business dealings before entering politics.
The bank has been one of Trump’s longest-standing and most supportive lenders, extending him hundreds of millions of dollars in credit for real estate deals and other ventures despite his history of bankruptcies. Mr Mueller’s subpoena was first reported by German financial daily Handelsblatt.
A Frankfurt-based spokesman for Deutsche Bank said the bank “takes its legal obligations seriously and remains committed to co-operating with authorised investigations into this matter”.
Mr Mueller’s team has been probing the role of Russia in the election since his appointment in May, but thus far the two plea deals his prosecutors have agreed with former Trump aides have revealed only contacts with Russia-linked individuals during and in the immediate aftermath of the campaign.
The president has lashed out at suggestions that Mr Mueller might use his investigation to probe his real estate dealings. The FT and other news groups have reported that Mr Trump worked closely with a Russian-born fixer with ties to accused organised crime figures in the former Soviet Union.
Democrats have repeatedly asked Deutsche for details of its dealings with Mr Trump, but because Republicans control both houses of Congress, such requests do not have the power of a subpoena. The bank said it could not co-operate unless it was served a subpoena or the files were formally requested by a congressional committee. Privately, executives were eagerly awaiting a subpoena as they maintained the bank has nothing to hide, arguing there is no smoking gun in Mr Trump’s accounts.
德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)已开始将其与唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)之间的业务信息提交给美国调查人员，后者正在调查有关俄罗斯干涉2016年美国大选的指控。此前负责这项联邦调查的特别检察官罗伯特•穆勒(Robert Mueller)向德银发出了传票。
对该行的行动非常了解的一名人士告诉英国《金融时报》，提交特朗普相关文件的工作是在几周前开始的。“德银不能在没有传票的情况下交出客户信息，”另一名知情人士介绍说。“被命令这样做是有帮助的。”
此举标志着穆勒的调查可能超越特朗普竞选阵营与俄罗斯之间联系的范畴，转而深入这名亿万富豪踏入政坛之前的生意往来。
德意志银行是支持特朗普最久、也最友好的贷款机构之一，为他的房地产交易和其他投资提供了数亿美元信贷，尽管他有不止一次破产的记录。《德国商报》(Handelsblatt)最先报道了穆勒发出传票的消息。
德银在法兰克福的一名发言人表示，该行“认真履行法定义务，继续致力于配合针对此事的依法调查”。
自5月份获得任命以来，穆勒的团队一直在调查俄罗斯在去年美国大选中扮演的角色，但迄今为止，他手下的检察官与特朗普前助理达成的两项认罪协议，只是揭示了在竞选期间和大选之后与俄罗斯相关人士的联络。
对于穆勒可能利用这项调查来深入探究他以前的房地产交易的说法，美国总统发出强烈批评。英国《金融时报》和其他新闻媒体均曾经报道称，特朗普曾与一名俄罗斯出生的代理密切合作，而此人被指与前苏联有组织犯罪集团的大佬们有联系。
美国民主党人曾一再要求德银提供其与特朗普业务往来的细节，但是由于共和党控制着国会两院，这类请求不具有传票的法律权威。该行表示，除非它接到传票或者国会某个委员会的正式请求，否则该行不能配合。私下里，此前高管们急切地等待着传票，他们坚称该行没什么要隐瞒的，并称特朗普的账户资料中不会有什么罪证。
译者/和风


