China housing inventory hits 4-year low on de-stocking success中国房屋库存创4年新低 - FT中文网
The volume of unsold Chinese homes hit a four-year low last month, in a sign that new construction can cushion an expected economic slowdown next year, while persistent warnings of a bubble may be overstated.
Real estate is crucial to China’s overall economy, contributing at least 20 per cent of gross domestic product when upstream and downstream sectors such as steel and home appliances are included. De-stocking of housing inventory was a key element in President Xi Jinping’s “supply-side reform” campaign to address excesses in a range of industries.
A strong property market has powered overall Chinese growth this year, putting the economy on pace for its first year-on-year acceleration since 2010.
But growth of both sales and new construction has slowed for most of the year, with analysts expecting the slowdown to continue into 2018. The government has imposed a series of restrictions on mortgage lending to restrain price growth, amid concerns over both financial risk and affordability for lower-income residents.
Still, the latest data suggest that developers will need to maintain a relatively quick pace of construction to keep up with demand, despite the sales slowdown. New construction will in turn drive demand for the output of China’s huge manufacturing sector, including steel, cement and glass.
Housing inventories fell 10.1 per cent in October from a year earlier and 2.1 per cent from a month earlier, bringing total unsold floor area to its lowest since August 2013, according to an 80-city survey by E-House China Research Institute. Inventories have now fallen for 27 consecutive months.
The data “thoroughly illustrate that the country’s three-year battle to digest inventories has achieved very good results”, Yan Yuejin, research director for E-House, wrote in the report. The data exclude flats that are sold but unoccupied, which one survey estimates at 50m.
A
中国住宅库存总量上月创下四年新低，这个迹象表明新开工的建筑活动有望缓冲明年预期会出现的经济放缓，同时不断发出的泡沫警告可能被夸大。
房地产对中国整体经济至关重要，若包括钢铁和家用电器等上、下游行业，该行业至少贡献国内生产总值(GDP)的20%。在中国国家主席习近平为应对一系列行业产能过剩提出的“供给侧改革”中，住房去库存是一个关键元素。
今年以来，强劲的房地产市场推动了经济的整体增长。自2010年以来，中国经济增长将首次出现同比加速。
但商品房销售和新屋开工量在今年大部分时间都呈放缓趋势，分析师们预计，放缓趋势将延续至2018年。出于对金融风险和低收入居民负担能力的双重担心，中国政府对抵押贷款施加了一系列限制，以抑制房价上涨。
话虽如此，最新数据似乎表明，尽管房屋销售放缓，但开发商将需要保持相对较快的建设速度才能跟上需求。新开工的建筑活动进而将加大对中国庞大制造业产出的需求，包括钢铁、水泥和玻璃。
根据易居房地产研究院(E-House China Research Institute)对80个城市的调查，10月份新建商品住宅库存总量同比减少10.1%，环比减少2.1%，令库存规模降至2013年8月以来最低水平。商品房库存已连续27个月下降。
易居房地产研究院研究总监严跃进在报告中写道，这些数据充分说明中国持续三年的库存消化战取得了良好效果。相关数据不包括已售出但无人居住的公寓，一项调查估计这类住房的总数达到5000万套。
译者/何黎


Alibaba draws $41bn of orders for jumbo bond sale阿里巴巴70亿美元债券获超额认购 - FT中文网
Investor orders for Alibaba’s $7bn bond sale on Wednesday reached $41bn, according to two people familiar with the sale.
The company was poised to raise the capital across five-maturities ranging from 5.5 to 40 years, with $700m of new 5.5 year notes set to yield 73 basis points above benchmark Treasuries and the new 10-year bonds set to yield 108 basis points above similarly maturing US government bonds.
Alibaba was also set to raise new 20-year debt with a spread of 118 basis points, 30-year bonds with a spread of 138 basis points, and 40-year paper with a spread of 158 basis points, according to a pricing sheet seen by the FT.
The strong investor demand allowed bankers underwriting the transaction ― led by Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan ― to tighten the terms on the deal.
据两位知情人士透露，阿里巴巴(Alibaba)周三发行的70亿美元债券获得了410亿美元的投资者认购。
该公司准备分五个期限（从5.5年到40年）筹集这笔资金，其中7亿美元5.5年期新票据的收益率将比基准的美国国债高出73个基点，而10年期新债券的收益率将比同期美国国债高出108个基点。
据英国《金融时报》看到的定价表单显示，阿里巴巴还计划新的20年期债券利差为118个基点，30年期债券利差为138个基点，40年期债券利差为158个基点。
强劲的投资者需求让承销这笔交易的银行家们――由摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)、花旗集团(Citigroup)、瑞信(Credit Suisse)、高盛(Goldman Sachs)和摩根大通(JPMorgan)牵头――得以收紧交易条款。
译者/何黎


International investors chase the red dragon国际投资者追逐中国股票 - FT中文网
China’s increased importance and influence in the global economy has been accompanied by rising demand from international investors for the nation’s equities.
China’s stock markets have grown into the world’s second-largest equity pool in less than three decades, overtaking both the UK and Japan.
The first public trading of Chinese equities began in December 1990, with eight companies listing on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. The opening of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange followed in July 1991.
There are now more than 3,000 companies listed on the two exchanges, with a combined market capitalisation exceeding $8.7tn, up from less than $2tn at end of 2006.
Beijing has limited foreign ownership of the mainland China A-shares market but policymakers are gradually relaxing these restrictions.
International investors and managers from certain jurisdictions are allowed access to the mainland China A-shares market via the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor or the Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor schemes, which have both expanded significantly since their launch in 2002 and 2011 respectively.
Equity trading flows have also been stimulated by the two Connect programmes that link Shanghai and Shenzhen with Hong Kong.
China’s top regulators unveiled far-reaching reforms for the asset management industry in November in a push to defuse the risks accumulating across the country’s financial system.
The reforms are designed to improve standards of investor protection and to set the asset management industry on a sustainable growth path following huge increases in debt and leverage that threaten the sustainability of the Chinese economy.
Driving money out of the shadow banking sector into regulated asset management products should provide a further boost to the equity market.
随着中国在全球经济中的重要性和影响力日益增强，国际投资者对中国股票的需求也不断上升。
中国股市在不到30年时间里成为世界第二大股市，超越了英国和日本。
中国在1990年12月启动股票公开交易，当时有8家公司在上海证券交易所上市。深圳证交所在1991年7月正式开业。

目前在这两家交易所上市的公司有3000多家，总市值超过8.7万亿美元，远高于2006年底的不到2万亿美元。
北京方面一直限制着外资在内地A股市场上的持股，但政策制定者正在逐步放宽这些限制。
来自某些司法管辖区的国际投资者和管理公司可通过合格境外机构投资者(QFII)或人民币合格境外机构投资者(RQFII)计划，进入中国内地A股市场。这两个计划自2002年和2011年分别推出以来，都已显著扩张。
对接沪深股市与香港的沪港通和深港通机制，也刺激了股票交易流量。
中国多家最高监管机构在11月联合出台了针对资产管理行业的深远改革方案，以求化解国内金融体系累积的风险。
这些改革旨在提高投资者保护标准，并在债务和杠杆率大幅上升、威胁中国经济可持续性的情况下，使资产管理行业进入可持续增长轨道。
将资金挤出影子银行业，使其流入受监管的资产管理产品，应该会进一步提振股市。
译者/何黎


Copper prices climb to highest level in 4 years铜价升至4年高点 - FT中文网
Copper prices continued their march higher on Thursday, rallying to their highest level in almost four years and putting the metal on track for its best year since 2010, in a welcome development for some of the world’s largest mining companies following years of oversupply.
The red metal is set to end the year up more than 30 per cent, helped by strong global economic growth and robust demand in China, the world’s biggest consumer.
Copper has become a favourite metal for global mining companies such as Glencore and Rio Tinto, which now forecast a lack of supply by the end of the decade as old mines come to the end of their lives and are not replaced.
Demand for the metal is also expected to increase from a buildout of charging networks required for electric cars and integration of renewable energy from the wind and sun.
Copper staged a spectacular rally to more than $10,000 a tonne in early 2011 after China launched a huge stimulus package following the financial crisis. It then crashed to just over $4,000 a tonne in early 2016, as new copper projects came to fruition and demand weakened, causing analysts to forecast a “wall of supply”.
This year, however, copper prices have clawed their way back up to more than $7,000 a tonne. On Thursday they hit $7,312 a tonne, the highest level since January 2014.
Shares of miners Glencore and Anglo American rose on the news, with shares up more 2 per cent this week.
The immediate move higher was sparked by the release of China’s import data on Wednesday, which showed that imports of refined copper jumped 19 per cent to 329,168 tonnes in November.
That highlighted strong demand in the country, following a lacklustre October. Analysts said imports of refined copper could continue higher following a crackdown by Chinese authorities on imports of scrap copper over the past few months.
Rumours also circulated that China’s largest producer, Jiangxi Copper, had been forced to cut production as part of the country’s crackdown on pollution. But the company said in a statement that it had received no such order.
铜价周四继续走高，升至近4年来的最高水平。2017年即将成为2010年以来铜价表现最好的一年，在多年的供过于求之后，这对世界最大的一些矿业公司是可喜的发展。
受全球经济强劲增长和世界最大铜消费国中国旺盛需求的推动，这种红色金属截至年底的价格涨幅势必超过30%。
铜已经成为最受嘉能可(Glencore)和力拓(Rio Tinto)等全球矿业公司欢迎的金属。这些公司预测，随着老矿储量枯竭而未能被新矿取代，本10年末尾将迎来铜供应短缺。
建立电动汽车充电网络和整合风能和太阳能等可再生能源的需要，预计将带动铜需求增加。
中国在金融危机后推出了大规模刺激计划，之后铜价在2011年初出现大幅上涨，至每吨逾1万美元。随着新铜矿项目投产，而需求减弱，导致分析师预测“排山倒海般的供应”，铜价在2016年初跌至每吨略高于4000美元。
然而，2017年铜价回升至每吨逾7000美元。周四铜价达到每吨7312美元，这是自2014年1月以来的最高水平。
矿业公司嘉能可和英美资源集团(Anglo American)的股价随之上涨，本周股价上涨逾2%。
周三公布的中国进口数据引发了最近这波涨势，数据表明中国11月的精炼铜进口量增长19%，至329168吨。
在表现乏力的10月后，这凸显了中国对铜的强劲需求。分析师们表示，在过去几个月中国当局打击进口废铜之后，对精炼铜的进口可能继续上升。
有传言称，中国最大的铜生产企业江西铜业(Jiangxi Copper)因为中国打击污染的行动而被迫减产。但该公司在声明中表示，并未接到这样的命令。
译者/徐行


India and Japan prepare joint mission to the moon印度和日本拟携手探月 - FT中文网
India and Japan are preparing to fly each other to the moon as two of Asia’s leading economic powers team up to counter China’s growing prowess in space exploration.
National space agencies in both countries are planning a joint mission to explore the moon’s polar regions for water that they hope could one day sustain human habitation.
The collaboration highlights the rising importance of Asia in space and the geopolitical reaction in the region to China's rise.
“Both India and Japan have demonstration landings on the moon coming up,” said Hiroki Furihata of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). “The next step for both of us is true exploration. If we combine the strengths of both sides it can be a win-win.”
Japan and India have already mounted successful lunar missions, with India’s Chandrayaan-1 impactor hitting the moon in 2008 and Japan’s Selene orbiting from 2007-09. This year, Chandrayaan-2 will deploy a rover, while Japan’s SLIM lander is scheduled to reach the moon in 2019.
But their efforts have been overshadowed by China’s ambitious 2007-14 series of Chang-e missions. Two more, intended to return lunar rocks to Earth, are scheduled for the next few years.
印度和日本正在准备联合探月任务。这两个亚洲经济大国拟携手抗衡中国日益壮大的航天探索实力。
印度和日本的国家航天机构正在规划一个联合任务，目的是勘察月球极地地区的水资源，希望这些水资源有朝一日能够维持人类居住。
这一合作突显亚洲在航天探索领域的重要性日益增强，以及该地区对中国崛起的地缘政治反应。
“印度和日本都规划了示范性登月，”日本宇宙航空研究开发机构(JAXA)的降K弘城(Hiroki Furihata)表示。“对于我们双方，下一步是真正的探索。如果我们能够结合双方的优势，这可能是双赢的。”
日本和印度都已经成功执行了探月任务，印度的月船1号(Chandrayaan-1)硬着陆探测器在2008年撞击月球，而日本的月亮女神号(Selene)卫星于2007年至2009年在绕月轨道飞行。今年，印度的月船2号将在月球表面释放一台月球车，而日本的月球调查智能着陆器(SLIM)定于2019年登月。
但在中国于2007年至2014年期间执行的雄心勃勃的嫦娥任务面前，两国的努力相形见绌。中国计划在未来几年再执行两个嫦娥任务，目的是采集月球土壤和岩石样品带回地球。
译者/和风


Xiaomi appoints banks for planned $100bn IPO小米拟年内IPO 估值可能高达1000亿美元 - FT中文网
Xiaomi, the Chinese smartphone maker, has appointed Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to lead a flotation later this year, which could value the group as high as $100bn in the biggest tech IPO since Alibaba floated in New York in 2014.
The Beijing-based company has selected the two global banks to lead a public sale of shares, which will probably be in either Hong Kong or New York, according to two people close to the plans.
The IPO could value the group at up to $100bn, according to people familiar with the listing plans, which would make it the sixth largest company on the Hong Kong stock exchange by market capitalisation behind AIA, the insurance group.
Xiaomi would join a number of powerful Chinese tech companies listed on the public markets, alongside Tencent and Alibaba, with more tech-focused IPOs expected by analysts to come to the market from China later this year.
Goldman and Morgan Stanley declined to comment. Xiaomi did not respond to requests for comment.
Some analysts are sceptical of the $100bn price tag given the high levels of competition in the global smartphone market, not least from domestic rivals such as Huawei, Oppo and Vivo.
But bankers who have seen the numbers, however, said it was possible, pointing to the success of a recent turnround plan under founder and chief executive Lei Jun.
“Based on the numbers we’ve seen, they’ve absolutely restructured the business,” said one banker. “It’s profitable now, they have got a strategy around creating an ecosystem of connected devices that they are able to monetise through value added services.”
It is not clear yet where Xiaomi will float. Some analysts and bankers said Hong Kong’s move to embrace companies with dual-share class structures could attract Xiaomi. Hong Kong proposed plans at the end of last year to allow dual-class shares for companies deemed “innovative” to better compete against New York and London for new listings.
“Lei would never cede control,” said one banker.
But some analysts said an IPO of the size envisaged by the company suggested that the bigger New York exchange was the more logical home.
中国智能手机制造商小米(Xiaomi)已任命高盛(Goldman Sachs)和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)在今年晚些时候牵头完成其上市交易，这可能是自阿里巴巴(Alibaba) 2014年在纽约上市以来最大规模的高科技公司首次公开发行(IPO)，对小米集团的估值可能高达1000亿美元。
据两位知情人士透露，这家总部位于北京的公司已经选择了上述两家全球性银行来牵头此次股票发售，上市地点可能在香港或纽约。
据了解小米上市计划的人士表示，此次IPO对小米集团的估值可能高达1000亿美元，使其成为香港交易所(HKEx)以市值计第六大公司，排在它前面的是保险集团友邦保险(AIA)。
小米将加入已在公开市场上市的多家中国实力雄厚的科技公司之列，与腾讯(Tencent)和阿里巴巴并肩。分析师们预计，今年晚些时候中国将有更多高科技企业上市。
高盛和摩根士丹利拒绝置评。小米没有回应记者的置评请求。
一些分析师对1000亿美元的估值表示怀疑，指出全球智能手机市场竞争激烈，尤其是来自华为(Huawei)、Oppo和Vivo等国内对手的竞争。
但是看到相关数字的银行家们表示这是可能的，他们指出，小米创始人和首席执行官雷军近期的扭转局面计划取得了成功。
一位银行家表示：“根据我们所看到的数字，他们已经彻底重组了业务。现在它是盈利的，他们围绕创建一个网联设备的生态系统制定了战略，能够通过增值服务实现创收。”
尚不清楚小米会在哪里上市。一些分析师和银行家表示，香港接受双层股权结构上市公司的举措可能会吸引小米。香港在去年底提出计划，允许被视为“创新型”的公司采取双层股权，以更好地与纽约和伦敦展开竞争，争取新的上市公司。
一位银行家说：“雷军永远不会放弃控制权。”
但一些分析师表示，从该公司设想的IPO规模来看，较大的纽约证交所才是更合乎逻辑的地点。
译者/何黎


LEX - Iran: Persian aversionLex专栏：伊朗怎么了？ - FT中文网
Iran is a paradox. Its government is dominated by hardline religious conservatives yet it has one of the highest female university enrolment rates in the world. It hardly counts itself as a friend of Israel, yet its Jewish population is the second largest in the region. And its latest street protests, driven by economic discontent, come as the price of its biggest export, crude oil, has surged by nearly half since the summer.
Iran’s economy, in some ways, looks better than that of its great Islamic rival Saudi Arabia. So long as sanctions ― lifted in January 2016 ― do not return, the economy and its government should survive the protests. That is not to say life is easy. With half the population under the age of 30, and youth unemployment estimated at 25 per cent, tensions have been long brewing. Inflation at 10 per cent no doubt hurts, though prices were climbing at a faster pace during the time of the 2009 riots.
What will bite harder are Tehran’s plans to increase taxes while also cutting subsidies on key commodities such as petrol. The government is doing this to take the pressure off its budget. Yet Iran’s fiscal deficit, according to the World Bank, is not so wide at 1.5 per cent of GDP. Compare that figure with Saudi Arabia’s, proportionally six times larger.
Part of this difference has to do with Iran’s more diversified economy, which reduces its dependence on oil and gas exports. Years of economic sanctions only forced the economy further inwards. Output has increased since sanctions were lifted; in the two years to December, it grew by 32 per cent to 3.8m barrels a day, according to estimates from Energy Aspects.
Higher volumes coupled with stronger oil prices can only help. Even better for locals would be some additional investment in refining capacity. A shortfall of domestically produced petrol means Iran ― Opec’s third-largest producer of crude ― must import 50,000-80,000 barrels per day of petrol, stoking inflation as world prices for that have jumped as well.
Iran’s economy may not be anywhere near meeting its potential, but it is also nowhere near the dire state of some other Opec members, most notably Venezuela. On the other hand, a resumption of full international sanctions on its oil exports would drive the oil price higher. Yet another paradox for Iran and her people.
伊朗是一个悖论。其政府由强硬的宗教保守派占主导地位，但这个国家的女性大学入学率跻身于世界最高之列。伊朗并不认为自己是以色列的朋友，但该国拥有地区第二大的犹太人口。而就在该国最大出口商品原油的价格自去年夏季以来上涨近一半的时候，经济上的不满酿成了最新的街头抗议。
在某些方面，伊朗经济看起来好过其在伊斯兰世界的大对手沙特阿拉伯。只要2016年1月解除的制裁不再恢复，伊朗经济和该国政府就应该能够挺过这波抗议。这并不是说日子好过。考虑到 30岁以下人口占总人口一半，而青年失业率估计高达25%，紧张已经酝酿了很久。10%的通胀无疑是痛苦的，尽管在2009年骚乱期间价格上涨速度更快。
更难以忍受的将是德黑兰方面计划增税，同时削减对汽油等关键大宗商品的补贴。政府这样做的动机是减轻预算压力。然而据世界银行(World Bank)统计，伊朗的财政赤字并不大，仅相当于GDP的1.5%。不妨将这一数字与沙特阿拉伯的数字比较，后者的这一比例是其六倍。
这种差异在一定程度上与伊朗更加多元化的经济有关，这减少了对石油和天然气出口的依赖。多年的经济制裁迫使经济进一步向内。制裁解除后，产出有所增加：据咨询公司Energy Aspects估计，在截至12月的两年里，伊朗的石油产量增长32%，达到每日380万桶。
更高的产量加上油价走强，只能说是积极因素。对当地人来说，更好的将是在炼油产能方面得到一些额外投资。国产汽油短缺意味着，身为欧佩克(OPEC)第三大原油生产国的伊朗，每日必须进口5万至8万桶汽油，从而引发通胀，因为世界汽油价格也大幅上涨。
伊朗经济也许远远没有发挥出潜力，但它的形势毕竟比其他一些境况糟糕的欧佩克成员国（尤其是委内瑞拉）好得多。另一方面，恢复针对伊朗石油出口的全面国际制裁将推高油价。那将是伊朗及其人民面对的又一个悖论。
Lex专栏是由FT评论员联合撰写的短评，对全球经济与商业进行精辟分析
译者/和风


