Bitcoin fights back after pre-Christmas sell-off比特币价格反弹 - FT中文网
The price of bitcoin jumped 13 per cent to nearly $16,000 on Tuesday, recovering from a sharp sell-off last week that saw the cryptocurrency’s value plummet by nearly a third amid growing concerns among regulators about a potential bubble.
The price of the cryptocurrency remains below its mid-December peak of nearly $19,666, but its rapid ascent since the start of the year when it was worth just $1,000 has alarmed regulators and financiers who fear the market shows all the signs of overheating. At the time of writing one bitcoin was worth $15,707, according to Coindesk.com. On Tuesday the currency was up 43 per cent from Friday’s low.
Concerns about the spiralling price of bitcoin and huge volatility in the value of the currency have prompted regulators around the world to take action in recent months amid fears a collapse in its price could leave investors nursing heavy losses.
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s self-regulator, last week warned investors to be “cautious when considering the purchase of shares of companies that tout the potential of high returns associated with cryptocurrency-related activities”.
Chinese authorities went further by deciding to close bitcoin exchanges and ban initial coin offerings in September.
However, cryptocurrencies remain popular, not least because of a number of celebrity endorsements. Paris Hilton, the hotel heiress and reality TV star, has recently promoted LydianCoin while boxer Floyd Mayweather has endorsed Stox.com. Others to join the cryptocurrency craze include film star Jamie Foxx and Ghostface Killah, a member of the rap collective Wu-Tang Clan.
Investors have pumped in more than $1bn into what have become known as initial coin offerings since the start of this year, evoking further memories of the dotcom boom and bust of the late 1990s.
比特币价格周二上涨13%，接近1.6万美元，从上周的大跌恢复元气。上周这种加密货币的价格骤降近三分之一，其背景是监管机构越来越担心潜在的泡沫。
这种加密货币的价格仍低于其12月中旬达到的高峰——近1.9666万美元，但它从年初仅1000美元的价位快速飙升，让一些监管者和金融业人士感到震惊，他们担心市场正显示出各种过热迹象。截止本文发稿时，根据网站Coindesk.com的数据，1比特币价值1.5707万美元。周二比特币相对于上周五的低点高出43%。
比特币价格的急剧上涨及大起大落引发的担忧，近几个月促使全球各地的监管机构纷纷采取行动，他们担心比特币价格崩盘会令投资者蒙受巨额损失。
华尔街的自我监管机构——美国金融业监管局(FINRA)上周警告投资者“在考虑购买吹嘘与比特币等加密货币相关的高回报的公司股票时，要当心潜在的股票骗局”。
中国当局更进一步，决定关闭比特币交易平台，并在今年9月禁止首次代币发行(ICO)。
然而加密货币依然受人追捧，原因包括很多名人为其代言。希尔顿酒店的女继承人及电视真人秀明星帕里斯•希尔顿(Paris Hilton)最近在推销LydianCoin，而拳击手弗洛伊德•梅威瑟(Floyd Mayweather)则为Stox.com背书。加入加密货币热潮的还有影星杰米•福克斯(Jamie Foxx)及说唱团体武当派乐队(Wu-Tang Clan)的成员之一大佬鬼脸(Ghostface Killah)。
自2017年初以来，投资者已在所谓的首次代币发行上投入逾10亿美元，令人联想起20世纪90年代末网络股大涨后崩盘的过程。
译者/何黎


