Change of heart puts Trump on track to ‘share the narrative’ with Davos elite特朗普将出席达沃斯论坛 - FT中文网
Donald Trump is to join the globe-trotting elite in the Swiss resort of Davos this month, in a move that sits awkwardly with his reputation as a scourge of globalisation and populist champion for ordinary Americans.
Mr Trump would become the first sitting US president to attend the World Economic Forum gathering in late January since Bill Clinton 18 years ago. This year’s discussions are entitled “creating a shared future in a fractured world”.
The Trump camp had only a minimal presence in Switzerland in the lead-up to the president’s inauguration last year, a decision reportedly driven in part by a perception that Davos was inimical to Mr Trump’s populist roots.
That left the stage open to Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, who dominated proceedings with a deliberate attempt to draw a line between himself and the new US president. In a speech, Mr Xi robustly defended globalisation and rebuked countries that pursue their own interests at the expense of others.
That set of meetings was dominated by shock over Mr Trump’s win and fears over the prospects for lost US leadership. Mr Trump’s then-adviser Anthony Scaramucci was the only prominent voice for the incoming president at the gathering, which was also attended by outgoing vice-president Joe Biden and John Kerry, then secretary of state.
The White House signalled yesterday that it had had a change of heart about Davos. “The president welcomes opportunities to advance his ‘America First’ agenda with world leaders,” said spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders.
Davos is quintessential a gathering of the world’s most influential and wealthy individuals, with more than 2,500 from 100 countries tipped to participate. Its debates are steeped in the language of global co-operation — interspersed with excursions on Alpine ski slopes. This year’s gathering pledges to “rededicate leaders from all walks of life to developing a shared narrative to improve the state of the world”.
Mr Trump on his campaign attacked Hillary Clinton as a “globalist” and vowed to champion Americans beaten back by an unfair economic system.
Klaus Schwab, the founder and executive chairman of the WEF, told staff the organisation was looking forward to welcoming Mr Trump. “The engagement of the president will allow participants to get a direct perspective on US political and economic priorities,” he said.
唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)本月将加入齐聚瑞士度假胜地达沃斯的全球精英之列，此举与他作为全球化的死对头、普通美国人的民粹主义捍卫者的名声不太合拍。
18年前，比尔•克林顿(Bill Clinton)曾出席“世界经济论坛”(WEF)，而特朗普将成为自那以来首位出席1月下旬举行的这一论坛的在任美国总统。今年讨论的主题为“在一个碎片化的世界创造一个共享的未来”。
去年总统就职典礼前夕，特朗普团队只派出了最低级别的代表来到瑞士。据称作出这一决定的部分原因是，达沃斯被认为与特朗普的民粹主义根基格格不入。
此举让中国国家主席习近平独占了舞台，他主导了议程，刻意试图划清自己与美国新总统之间的界线。习近平在演讲中坚定捍卫全球化，抨击那些以牺牲别国利益为代价追求自身利益的国家。
去年的一系列会议充斥着对特朗普当选的震惊，以及对美国失去领导作用前景的担忧。时任特朗普顾问的安东尼•斯卡拉穆奇(Anthony Scaramucci)是去年论坛上唯一代表即将上任的总统的人物，出席该论坛的还有即将卸任的副总统乔•拜登(Joe Biden)和时任国务卿约翰•克里(John Kerry)。
白宫昨日发出信号表明，其已改变对达沃斯的看法。女发言人萨拉•哈克比•桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)称：“总统欢迎有机会在世界领袖面前推进其‘美国优先’议程。”
达沃斯论坛是全球最有影响力和最富有人士的典型盛会，每年有来自100个国家的2500多人参加。这里的辩论充满了全球合作语言。今年的论坛承诺“将激励各界领袖创造共同叙事，以改善世界现状”。论坛参加者还将在阿尔卑斯山的高山滑雪场小试身手。
特朗普曾在竞选期间攻击希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)为一名“全球主义者”，并誓言为那些被不公平的经济体系击败的美国人撑腰。
世界经济论坛创始人和执行主席克劳斯•施瓦布(Klaus Schwab)对工作人员表示，该组织期待着迎接特朗普的到来。他说：“总统的参与将让与会者直接了解美国的政治和经济优先事项。”
译者/申凯


