Disney close to $60bn deal to take over Fox assets迪士尼接近达成福克斯资产收购案 - FT中文网
Walt Disney is closing in on the entertainment assets of Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox in an all-share deal that stands to reshape Hollywood and the rapidly digitising global media industry.
The deal, valuing the Fox assets at about $60bn including debt, could be announced as early as Thursday, according to people briefed on the negotiations.
It would see Disney add 20th Century Fox, home to the Avatar and X-Men film franchises, to its own studio, as well as international pay-television brands from Sky in the UK to Star in India, regional US sports networks and Fox’s stake in the Hulu digital streaming service.
Fox’s remaining assets, including the Fox broadcast network and Fox News Channel will be spun off into a new company worth about $10 per share, said one person briefed about the transaction terms.
Among the final details still being hammered out on Tuesday were total price to be paid by Disney and the future of James Murdoch, Fox’s chief executive who has been mooted for a senior role in the combined group, which would end 20 years working for his father, Rupert.
Negotiators were also discussing what measures would need to be taken to meet tougher regulatory scrutiny in Washington, where the Trump administration recently blocked AT&T’s $85.4bn acquisition of Time Warner unless it sells off some of its broadcast networks.
华特迪士尼公司(Walt Disney)接近收购鲁珀特•默多克(Rupert Murdoch)旗下21世纪福克斯(21st Century Fox)的娱乐资产，这笔全股票交易将重塑好莱坞以及正在迅速数字化的全球媒体行业。
据听取了谈判情况介绍的人士透露，这笔交易对福克斯这部分资产的估值约为600亿美元，包括债务，最快在本周四就会宣布。
这笔交易意味着，拥有《阿凡达》(Avatar)和《X战警》(X-Men)等大片版权的二十世纪福斯影片公司(Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation)，将加入迪士尼旗下的制片公司；迪士尼还将接手国际付费电视品牌（包括英国的天空(Sky)和印度的Star）、美国的地区体育网络，以及福克斯在数字流媒体服务Hulu所持股份。
了解交易条款的一位人士表示，福克斯的剩余资产，包括福克斯电视广播网和福克斯新闻频道(Fox News Channel)，将被剥离，成为一家新公司，每股大约价值10美元。
周二仍在敲定的最后细节包括迪士尼将支付的总价，以及福克斯首席执行官詹姆斯•默多克(James Murdoch)的去向，据悉他有可能在合并后的集团中担任高级职位，那将意味着他告别为父亲鲁珀特工作的20年职业生涯。
谈判人员也在讨论需要采取什么措施来满足华盛顿的更严格监管审查，特朗普政府最近阻止了AT&T收购时代华纳(Time Warner)的854亿美元交易——除非后者卖掉一些电视广播网络。
译者/和风


