Yellen era ends with Fed set for March rate rise耶伦最后一次议息会议 美联储维持利率不变 - FT中文网
Janet Yellen kept the Federal Reserve on course for a further interest rate rise in March in her final meeting as chair of the central bank, with the inflation outlook strengthening and America’s jobs market continuing to heat up.
The Federal Open Market Committee held its target range for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1.25 to 1.5 per cent, as widely expected, while giving an upbeat assessment of the economy’s recent performance and stressing “further” rate rises lie ahead.
The committee upgraded its near-term outlook for inflation, saying it expected year-on-year readings to “move up this year” before stabilising around its 2 per cent goal in the medium term. Expectations for inflation in financial markets have risen in recent months, even if they remain low, the central bank said.
“Gains in employment, household spending, and business fixed investment have been solid, and the unemployment rate has stayed low,” the Fed said in a statement, while retaining its view that the risks to the outlook remained “roughly balanced”.
Mr Yellen is days away from handing over to her successor Jay Powell after a single four-year term as chair in which she began gradually withdrawing the crisis-era monetary stimulus the Fed injected into the economy. Her tenure at the Fed has been marked by steady growth, a more buoyant jobs market with the lowest unemployment since 2000, and increasingly effervescent asset prices.
Mr Powell, who will be sworn in as chairman of the Fed’s board of governors on Monday, inherits a carefully laid-out monetary outlook involving an expected three rate rises this year and a steady reduction in the size of the Fed’s balance sheet.
在通胀前景增强、美国就业市场持续升温的背景下，珍妮特•耶伦(Janet Yellen)在其担任美联储主席的最后一次议息会议上，让美国央行保持在3月加息的轨道上。
联邦公开市场委员会(FOMC)决定让联邦基金利率继续保持在1.25%-1.5%的目标区间内不变——与市场普遍预期一致——同时对美国经济近来表现予以乐观评价，并强调即将“进一步”加息。
该委员会提高了近期通胀预测，称预计同比数字“今年将攀升”，之后在中期内稳定在2%的目标上下。美联储表示，最近几个月，金融市场的通胀预期有所提高，尽管仍然维持在较低水平。
“就业、家庭支出和企业固定投资稳健增长，失业率维持在较低水平，”美联储在声明中表示，同时保留了经济前景的风险保持“大致平衡”的观点。
几天后耶伦将结束美联储主席的首个四年任期，届时她将把该职位交给继任者杰伊•鲍威尔(Jay Powell)。在其任期内，耶伦开始逐步退出美联储在危机时期注入经济的货币刺激措施，美国经济稳步增长，就业市场更加繁荣（失业率达到自2000年以来最低水平），且资产价格日益上涨。
鲍威尔将于下周一宣誓就任美联储理事会主席。他接手的是精心布局的货币前景，包括今年预期3次加息以及美联储资产负债表规模稳步缩减。
译者/马柯斯


